# README

## Getting Started

0A. Get Gandi API key and set the `GANDI_API_KEY` environment variable.

See <https://www.gandi.net/admin/api_key>.

1A. Download and install Gandi's Docker Machine driver.

Download and install
[`docker-machine-driver-gandi`](https://github.com/Gandi/docker-machine-gandi/releases)
([more info](https://github.com/Gandi/docker-machine-gandi)).

2A. Create "Dockerized host" on Gandi infrastructure.

Provision Gandi virtual machine and install Docker Engine on it, creating a
"Dockerized host" that is able to run Docker containers:

```sh
$ docker-machine create \
  --driver gandi \
  --gandi-api-key=$GANDI_API_KEY \
  --gandi-image "Ubuntu 16.04 64 bits LTS (HVM)" \
  --gandi-memory 256 \
  default
```

`default` is the machine name; if this exists, then many `docker-machine`
commands will apply to this machine by default.

3A. Configure `docker` command to interact with Gandi's Docker Engine.

(Instead of the Docker Engine provided by the local Docker.app.)

```sh
$ eval (docker-machine env default)
```

4. (Optional) Test Dockerized host.

```sh
$ docker run hello-world
Unable to find image 'hello-world:latest' locally
latest: Pulling from library/hello-world
c04b14da8d14: Pull complete
Digest:
sha256:0256e8a36e2070f7bf2d0b0763dbabdd67798512411de4cdcf9431a1feb60fd9
Status: Downloaded newer image for hello-world:latest

Hello from Docker!
This message shows that your installation appears to be working
correctly.
...
```

Note: "locally" refers to the location of the docker machine is running. (Either
the datacenter, or locally.)

See Docker's [Getting Started
documentation](https://docs.docker.com/machine/get-started/#/run-containers-and-experiment-with-machine-commands)
for some more examples.

5. Create image (named `fred`) from `~/.dotfiles/docker/Dockerfile`.

```sh
$ docker build -t fred ~/.dotfiles/docker
```

6A. Create and start a container (named `barry`) on Cloud Docker Engine:

```sh
$ docker run --privileged -it --name barry -p 80:22 -h barry -d -v /root/.ssh:/etc/ssh/keys:ro fred
```

* `--name barry` – the name of the container
* `-p 80:22` – maps port 80 on the virtual machine to port 22 on the container
  * Port 22 is used for ssh on the virtual machine itself, as accessible via
    `docker-machine ssh`
* `-h barry` – the hostname of the container
* `-v /root/.ssh:/etc/ssh/keys:ro` – make contents of `/root/.ssh` on the
  virtual machine available (ro) as `/etc/ssh/keys` on the container
  * This directory contains an `authorized_keys` generated by Docker, and
    presumably placed there via `docker-machine create`.
* `fred` – the name of the image

6B. Create and start a container (named `barry`) on local Docker Engine:

```sh
$ docker run --privileged -it --name barry -p 127.0.0.1:8022:22 -h barry -d -v $HOME/.ssh:/etc/ssh/keys:ro fred
```

7A. `ssh` into the container as user `mjs` on the Cloud Docker Engine.

```sh
$ ssh -i (docker-machine inspect -f "{{.HostOptions.AuthOptions.StorePath}}")/id_rsa -p 80 mjs@(docker-machine ip)
```

* `(docker-machine inspect -f "{{.HostOptions.AuthOptions.StorePath}}")` – the
directory holding the encryption keys that manage the virtual machine.
  * The `id_rsa.pub` file in this directory is available as
  `/root/.ssh/authorized_keys` on the virtual machine (`docker-machine create`
  did this), and `/etc/ssh/keys/authorized_keys` in the container (`-v
  /root/.ssh:/etc/ssh/keys/authorized_keys` did this).
* `-p 80` – connect to port 80
* `(docker-machine ip)` returns the ip address of the virtual machine.

[TODO: Copy `ssh` keys to the container via `ssh-copy-id`.]

Or, get interactive shell (user `root`) on the container via Docker:

```sh
$ docker exec --privileged -it barry bash -l
```

Or, attach to the `sshd` (or whatever is run by `CMD` in `Dockerfile`) via:

```sh
$ docker attach barry
```

Exiting or killing this process stops the container. To detach from the
container without killing the process, use `ctrl-p`, `ctrl-q`.

7B. `ssh` into the container as user `mjs` on local Docker Engine.

```sh
$ ssh -i $HOME/.ssh/play_rsa -p 8022 mjs@127.0.0.1
```

## Appendix A: Docker Concepts

In this document, "virtual machine" refers to the virtual machine running
Docker engine, as visible in Gandi's management interface.

`docker-machine` installs and manages Docker Engine on virtual hosts.

`docker` is the CLI to interact with Docker Engine.

A docker image is like a virtual disk.

A docker container is like a virtual machine. (A container can be
started and stopped; images can only be created and deleted.)

See also [What's the difference between Docker Engine and Docker
Machine?](https://docs.docker.com/machine/overview/#/what-s-the-difference-between-docker-engine-and-docker-machine)

## Appendix B: `docker` commands

Images:

* `docker images` - list images
* `docker build ...` - create image
* `docker rmi ...` - remove image
  * `docker rmi (docker images -q -a)` - remove all images

Containers:

* `docker ps -a` - list (all) containers
  * `docker ps` - list running containers
* `docker create ...` - create container
* `docker rm ...` - remove container
  * `docker rm (docker ps -q -a)` - remove all containers
* `docker start ...` - start container
* `docker stop ...` - stop container

Commands (applicable to created and started containers):

* `docker exec mycontainer echo hello` - run `echo hello` in container
  * `docker exec --privileged mycontainer echo hello` - run command in
    [privileged mode](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#/runtime-privilege-and-linux-capabilities)
* `docker exec --privileged -it mycontainer bash` - start interactive shell in
  container
* `docker attach mycontainer` - attach to an already running container; on exit,
  container will stop

Commands (applicable to images):

* `docker run --privileged -it -h myhostname myimage` - create and start
  container, run default command and attach interactively
  * `docker run --privileged -it -h myhostname --rm myimage` - as above, but
    remove container on exit

## Appendix C: `docker-machine` commands

* `docker-machine ssh` – ssh into machine (not container!)
  * For example, to see how much disk space is left.
* `docker-machine ls` – list Dockerized hosts (excludes Docker.app for some
  reason)
* `docker-machine rm` – remove host (also (always?) destroys the virtual machine
  in the cloud)
