etc/skills/ai-analysis/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: ai-analysis
description: >
  Command-line tools that delegate analysis tasks to AI models. Includes image
  description, screenshot comparison, smart cropping around people, token
  counting, essay generation from text, boolean condition evaluation, and
  context gathering. Use for describing images, comparing UI states, cropping
  photos around faces, counting tokens, generating reports, evaluating
  conditions, gathering context for analysis, or any task requiring AI
  inference. Triggers: ai analysis, describe image, compare screenshots, smart
  crop, crop around people, face crop, count tokens, token count, generate
  essay, evaluate condition, alt text, image description, UI comparison, visual
  diff, satisfies condition, boolean evaluation, gemini, context, gather
  context, research topic.
compatibility: >
  Requires curl, jq, and python3. Image tools also need base64 and magick
  (ImageMagick). Needs GEMINI_API_KEY environment variable and network access
  to generativelanguage.googleapis.com.
---

# AI Analysis Tools

## Important: Use Scripts First

**ALWAYS prefer the scripts in `scripts/` over raw `curl` API calls.** Scripts
are located in the `scripts/` subdirectory of this skill's folder. They provide
features that raw commands do not:

- Proper image encoding (WebP conversion, alpha removal)
- Appropriate model selection for each task
- Structured output handling (boolean responses via exit codes)
- Meaningful exit codes for shell integration

**When to read the script source:** If a script doesn't do exactly what you
need, or fails due to missing dependencies, read the script source. The scripts
encode Gemini API best practices (image ordering, structured output schemas,
model selection) that may not be obvious—use them as reference when building
similar functionality.

## Quick Start

**Environment:** Set `GEMINI_API_KEY` before running any commands.

**Dependencies:** `curl`, `jq` (all tools); `base64`, `magick` (image tools
only)

```bash
# Describe an image (generate alt-text)
scripts/screenshot-describe screenshot.png

# Compare two images for visual differences
scripts/screenshot-compare before.png after.png

# Smart crop image around detected people
scripts/photo-smart-crop photo.jpg cropped.jpg

# Generate essay-length analysis from text
scripts/emerson "Summarize the key changes" < documentation.md

# Gather context and analyze
scripts/context gemini-api | scripts/emerson "Explain the key features"

# Evaluate a boolean condition against text
echo "Hello world" | scripts/satisfies "is a greeting"

# Count tokens in text
cat document.md | scripts/token-count
```

## Script Overview

### screenshot-describe

Generate concise alt-text for an image. Optimized for UI captures.

```bash
scripts/screenshot-describe IMAGE [PROMPT]
```

**Exit codes:** 0 success, 1 error, 127 missing dependency

### screenshot-compare

Compare two images for visual differences. Identifies layout shifts, color
changes, padding, and text updates.

```bash
scripts/screenshot-compare IMAGE1 IMAGE2 [PROMPT]
```

**Exit codes:** 0 differences found, 1 error, 2 images identical, 127 missing
dependency

### photo-smart-crop

Smart crop images around detected people with a specified aspect ratio.
Prioritizes faces, expands for headroom, enforces aspect ratio.

```bash
scripts/photo-smart-crop [--ratio W:H] INPUT OUTPUT
```

**Options:** `--ratio W:H` (default 5:3)

**Exit codes:** 0 success, 1 error (no people found, API error), 2 rate limited,
127 missing dependency

**Examples:**

```bash
# Default 5:3 aspect ratio
scripts/photo-smart-crop family.jpg family-cropped.jpg

# 16:9 for video thumbnails
scripts/photo-smart-crop --ratio 16:9 portrait.jpg thumbnail.jpg

# Square crop for profile pictures
scripts/photo-smart-crop --ratio 1:1 headshot.png avatar.png
```

### emerson

Generate essay-length (~3000 words) analysis from text input. Produces
authoritative, footnoted Markdown. Best used with `context` to provide rich
background material.

```bash
scripts/emerson "PROMPT" < input.txt
```

**Exit codes:** 0 success, 1 error, 127 missing dependency

### context

Generate aggregated context for various topics (e.g., `gemini-api`,
`gemini-cli`). Outputs XML format suitable for `emerson`.

**Warning:** Output can be very large. **Do not** read output directly into
your conversation history. Pipe to `emerson` for analysis, or redirect to a
file to search/read locally.

```bash
scripts/context TOPIC
```

**Options:** `--list` (list available topics)

**Exit codes:** 0 success, 1 error, 127 missing dependency

**Examples:**

```bash
# List available topics
scripts/context --list

# Gather context for Gemini API
scripts/context gemini-api > gemini-context.xml

# Pipe context directly to analysis
scripts/context gemini-cli | scripts/emerson "How do commands work?"
```

### satisfies

Evaluate whether input text satisfies a condition. Returns boolean via exit
code.

```bash
echo "text" | scripts/satisfies "CONDITION"
```

**Exit codes:** 0 true (satisfies), 1 false (does not satisfy), 127 missing
dependency

**Examples:**

```bash
# Check if file mentions a topic
cat file.txt | scripts/satisfies "mentions Elvis" && echo "Found it"

# Validate content type
cat response.json | scripts/satisfies "is valid JSON with an 'id' field"

# Use in conditionals
if cat log.txt | scripts/satisfies "contains error messages"; then
  echo "Errors detected"
fi
```

### token-count

Count tokens in text using the Gemini API.

```bash
cat file.txt | scripts/token-count
```

**Exit codes:** 0 success, 1 error, 127 missing dependency

## Image Encoding Notes

- Images converted to lossless WebP for consistent encoding
- Alpha channel removed (`-alpha off`) so transparency-only differences are
  ignored
- Base64: use `-w 0` (Linux) or `-b 0` (macOS) for single-line output
- Single-image prompts: image before text (Gemini best practice)
- Multi-image comparison: text before images (Gemini best practice)

## Safety Notes

- Scripts require network access to the Gemini API
- `GEMINI_API_KEY` must be set in the environment
- API calls may incur usage costs
- Large images increase request size and latency
- Scripts do not store or log input data

## References

- [Command Index](references/command-index.md) - Detailed documentation for each
  script
- [Troubleshooting](references/troubleshooting.md) - Common issues and solutions

Commit message:

docs: update ai-analysis skill context documentation
Updates the ai-analysis SKILL.md, command-index.md, and the generating prompt to explicitly advise users to run 'scripts/context --list' to see available topics. This ensures the documentation remains accurate regardless of the specific topics supported by the underlying script.

etc/skills/ai-analysis/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: ai-analysis
description: >
  Command-line tools that delegate analysis tasks to AI models. Includes image
  description, screenshot comparison, smart cropping around people, token
  counting, essay generation from text, boolean condition evaluation, and
  context gathering. Use for describing images, comparing UI states, cropping
  photos around faces, counting tokens, generating reports, evaluating
  conditions, gathering context for analysis, or any task requiring AI
  inference. Triggers: ai analysis, describe image, compare screenshots, smart
  crop, crop around people, face crop, count tokens, token count, generate
  essay, evaluate condition, alt text, image description, UI comparison, visual
  diff, satisfies condition, boolean evaluation, gemini, context, gather
  context, research topic.
compatibility: >
  Requires curl, jq, and python3. Image tools also need base64 and magick
  (ImageMagick). Needs GEMINI_API_KEY environment variable and network access
  to generativelanguage.googleapis.com.
---

# AI Analysis Tools

## Important: Use Scripts First

**ALWAYS prefer the scripts in `scripts/` over raw `curl` API calls.** Scripts
are located in the `scripts/` subdirectory of this skill's folder. They provide
features that raw commands do not:

- Proper image encoding (WebP conversion, alpha removal)
- Appropriate model selection for each task
- Structured output handling (boolean responses via exit codes)
- Meaningful exit codes for shell integration

**When to read the script source:** If a script doesn't do exactly what you
need, or fails due to missing dependencies, read the script source. The scripts
encode Gemini API best practices (image ordering, structured output schemas,
model selection) that may not be obvious—use them as reference when building
similar functionality.

## Quick Start

**Environment:** Set `GEMINI_API_KEY` before running any commands.

**Dependencies:** `curl`, `jq` (all tools); `base64`, `magick` (image tools
only)

```bash
# Describe an image (generate alt-text)
scripts/screenshot-describe screenshot.png

# Compare two images for visual differences
scripts/screenshot-compare before.png after.png

# Smart crop image around detected people
scripts/photo-smart-crop photo.jpg cropped.jpg

# Generate essay-length analysis from text
scripts/emerson "Summarize the key changes" < documentation.md

# Gather context and analyze
scripts/context gemini-api | scripts/emerson "Explain the key features"

# Evaluate a boolean condition against text
echo "Hello world" | scripts/satisfies "is a greeting"

# Count tokens in text
cat document.md | scripts/token-count
```

## Script Overview

### screenshot-describe

Generate concise alt-text for an image. Optimized for UI captures.

```bash
scripts/screenshot-describe IMAGE [PROMPT]
```

**Exit codes:** 0 success, 1 error, 127 missing dependency

### screenshot-compare

Compare two images for visual differences. Identifies layout shifts, color
changes, padding, and text updates.

```bash
scripts/screenshot-compare IMAGE1 IMAGE2 [PROMPT]
```

**Exit codes:** 0 differences found, 1 error, 2 images identical, 127 missing
dependency

### photo-smart-crop

Smart crop images around detected people with a specified aspect ratio.
Prioritizes faces, expands for headroom, enforces aspect ratio.

```bash
scripts/photo-smart-crop [--ratio W:H] INPUT OUTPUT
```

**Options:** `--ratio W:H` (default 5:3)

**Exit codes:** 0 success, 1 error (no people found, API error), 2 rate limited,
127 missing dependency

**Examples:**

```bash
# Default 5:3 aspect ratio
scripts/photo-smart-crop family.jpg family-cropped.jpg

# 16:9 for video thumbnails
scripts/photo-smart-crop --ratio 16:9 portrait.jpg thumbnail.jpg

# Square crop for profile pictures
scripts/photo-smart-crop --ratio 1:1 headshot.png avatar.png
```

### emerson

Generate essay-length (~3000 words) analysis from text input. Produces
authoritative, footnoted Markdown. Best used with `context` to provide rich
background material.

```bash
scripts/emerson "PROMPT" < input.txt
```

**Exit codes:** 0 success, 1 error, 127 missing dependency

### context

Generate aggregated context for various topics (e.g., `gemini-api`,
`gemini-cli`). Run with `--list` to see all available topics. Outputs XML format
suitable for `emerson`.

**Warning:** Output can be very large. **Do not** read output directly into
your conversation history. Pipe to `emerson` for analysis, or redirect to a
file to search/read locally.

```bash
scripts/context TOPIC
```

**Options:** `--list` (list available topics)

**Exit codes:** 0 success, 1 error, 127 missing dependency

**Examples:**

```bash
# List available topics
scripts/context --list

# Gather context for Gemini API
scripts/context gemini-api > gemini-context.xml

# Pipe context directly to analysis
scripts/context gemini-cli | scripts/emerson "How do commands work?"
```

### satisfies

Evaluate whether input text satisfies a condition. Returns boolean via exit
code.

```bash
echo "text" | scripts/satisfies "CONDITION"
```

**Exit codes:** 0 true (satisfies), 1 false (does not satisfy), 127 missing
dependency

**Examples:**

```bash
# Check if file mentions a topic
cat file.txt | scripts/satisfies "mentions Elvis" && echo "Found it"

# Validate content type
cat response.json | scripts/satisfies "is valid JSON with an 'id' field"

# Use in conditionals
if cat log.txt | scripts/satisfies "contains error messages"; then
  echo "Errors detected"
fi
```

### token-count

Count tokens in text using the Gemini API.

```bash
cat file.txt | scripts/token-count
```

**Exit codes:** 0 success, 1 error, 127 missing dependency

## Image Encoding Notes

- Images converted to lossless WebP for consistent encoding
- Alpha channel removed (`-alpha off`) so transparency-only differences are
  ignored
- Base64: use `-w 0` (Linux) or `-b 0` (macOS) for single-line output
- Single-image prompts: image before text (Gemini best practice)
- Multi-image comparison: text before images (Gemini best practice)

## Safety Notes

- Scripts require network access to the Gemini API
- `GEMINI_API_KEY` must be set in the environment
- API calls may incur usage costs
- Large images increase request size and latency
- Scripts do not store or log input data

## References

- [Command Index](references/command-index.md) - Detailed documentation for each
  script
- [Troubleshooting](references/troubleshooting.md) - Common issues and solutions
